Hyderabad student ‘missing’ in US for 12 days, family gets call to pay $1,200 ransom

HYDERABAD: An unknown person on Tuesday called up the family of a student from Hyderabad studying in Cleveland of US and claimed that the young man had been kidnapped by a gang selling drugs in Cleveland. He demanded money for the student’s release.

The caller, who claimed to be living in the US, warned the student’s father, a resident of Nacharam in Medchal-Malkajgiri, that if he did not pay up immediately, the gang would sell the kidneys of the 25-year-old student.

Caller

“I am in a state of shock. The caller refused to give evidence that my son was in his custody. I tried telling him that we would follow his instructions, but he got angry and refused to communicate further,” Mohammed Saleem, who is a supervisor for building sites, told TOI.

Saleem’s son Abdul Mohammed, who went to the US in May 2023 for a Masters in IT from Cleveland University, has not been in touch with the family since March 7. Relatives of the family in the US lodged a complaint with Cleveland police which issued a look-out notice for Abdul Mohammed.

Saleem said the caller demanded that he immediately pay 1,200 US dollars but did not mention the mode of payment.

“We could hear a faint sound of a person crying for a few seconds before the caller spoke. We do not know if it was our son,” Saleem said.

The Cleveland police in its lookout notice asked residents to report to them if they come across the missing 25-year-old. The police described him as a 5-foot-8-inch tall person weighing 150 pounds, having black hair and brown eyes.

“He was last seen at 1700 E, 13th Street in Cleveland. He was wearing a white T-shirt, red jacket and blue jeans,” the police said sharing his photograph.

In his WhatsApp text messages to Abdul’s father, the caller told him that his son was in big trouble and that he wanted it to be informed to him. Demanding money, he said that if the payment wasn’t done within 30 minutes, he would not be able to help them anymore.

The family also wrote to the Indian consulate at Chicago on March 18 to help trace Abdul.

Immediately after the unknown person called on Tuesday, Saleem passed on the number to his relative who lives in Washington to inform the Cleveland police about the call.

author
Ch Sushil Rao
